README.md, before:

# tcld (`Beta`)
A cli tool for managing Temporal Cloud namespaces.

> This cli tool is currently in `beta` and access to Temporal Cloud via the cli is restricted. Please reach out to temporal-cloud support for more information.

# Installation
## Install via Homebrew
```
brew install temporalio/brew/tcld
```
## Build from source
1. Verify that you have Go 1.18+ installed. If `go` is not installed, follow instructions on [the Go website](https://golang.org/doc/install).
```
go version
```
2. Clone the `tcld` repository and run `make`.
```
git clone https://github.com/temporalio/tcld.git
cd tcld
make
```
3. Copy the tcld executable to any directory that appears in the PATH environment variable; for example, `/usr/local/bin/`.
```
cp tcld /usr/local/bin/tcld
```
4. Run `tcld version` to check if it worked.
```
tcld version
```

# Authentication and Login
In order to use the cli you must first login by running the following command:
```
tcld login
```
You will be sent a link to confirm your device code and login. After logging in, you are now authenticated and can make requests with this cli.

# Namespace Management

### List namespaces user has access to:
```
tcld namespace list
```

### Get namespace information:
```
tcld namespace get -n <namespace>
```

### Update the CA certificate:
```
tcld namespace update accepted-client-ca set -n <namespace> --ca-certificate-file <ca-pem-filepath>
```
> :warning: If the update removes a certificate, any clients (tctl/workers) still using the removed certificate will fail to connect to the namespace after the update completes.

#### Performing a certificate rollover:
It is important to do a rollover process when updating your CA certificates. This allows your namespace to serve both CA certificates for a period of time until traffic to your old certificate is gone. To do this follow these steps:
1. Create a single file that contains both your old and new CA certificate PEM blocks. You can do this by simply concatenating each PEM block on a new line.
```
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
... old CA cert ...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
... new CA cert ...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```
2. Run the `update accepted-client-ca set` command with the new CA certificate bundle file.
3. Monitor traffic to your old certificate until it is gone.
4. Create a new CA certificate bundle file with the old certificate removed.
5. Run the `update accepted-client-ca set` command again with the new file.

### Add new search attributes:
```
tcld namespace update search-attributes add -n <namespace> --sa "<attribute-name>=<search-attribute-type>" --sa "<attribute-name>=<search-attribute-type>"
```
Supported search attribute types: `Keyword Text Int Double Datetime Bool`

### Rename existing search attribute:
```
tcld namespace update search-attributes rename -n <namespace> --existing-name <existing-attribute-name> --new-name <new-attribute-name>
```
> :warning: Any workflows that are using the old search attribute name will fail after the update.

# Asynchronous Operations
Any update operations making changes to the namespaces hosted on Temporal Cloud are asynchronous. Such operations are tracked using a `request-id` that can be passed in when invoking the update operation or will be auto-generated by the server if one is not specified. Once an asynchronous request is initiated, a `request-id` is returned. Use the `request get` command to query the status of an asynchronous request.
```
tcld request get -r <request-id> -n <namespace>
```

# License

MIT License, please see [LICENSE](https://github.com/temporalio/tcld/blob/master/LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

add list/add/remove ca certs commands for better user experience.  (#18)

README.md, after:

# tcld (`Beta`)
A cli tool for managing Temporal Cloud namespaces.

> This cli tool is currently in `beta` and access to Temporal Cloud via the cli is restricted. Please reach out to temporal-cloud support for more information.

# Installation
## Install via Homebrew
```
brew install temporalio/brew/tcld
```
## Build from source
1. Verify that you have Go 1.18+ installed. If `go` is not installed, follow instructions on [the Go website](https://golang.org/doc/install).
```
go version
```
2. Clone the `tcld` repository and run `make`.
```
git clone https://github.com/temporalio/tcld.git
cd tcld
make
```
3. Copy the tcld executable to any directory that appears in the PATH environment variable; for example, `/usr/local/bin/`.
```
cp tcld /usr/local/bin/tcld
```
4. Run `tcld version` to check if it worked.
```
tcld version
```

# Authentication and Login
In order to use the cli you must first login by running the following command:
```
tcld login
```
You will be sent a link to confirm your device code and login. After logging in, you are now authenticated and can make requests with this cli.

# Namespace Management

### List namespaces user has access to:
```
tcld namespace list
```

### Get namespace information:
```
tcld namespace get -n <namespace>
```

### Update the CA certificate:
```
tcld namespace accepted-client-ca set -n <namespace> --ca-certificate-file <ca-pem-filepath>
```
> :warning: If the update removes a certificate, any clients (tctl/workers) still using the removed certificate will fail to connect to the namespace after the update completes.

#### Performing a certificate rollover:
It is important to do a rollover process when updating your CA certificates. This allows your namespace to serve both CA certificates for a period of time until traffic to your old certificate is gone. To do this follow these steps:

1. Generate the new certificates.
2. Run the `accepted-client-ca add` command with the new CA certificates.
```
tcld namespace accepted-client-ca add -n <namespace> --ca-certificate-file <new-ca-pem-filepath>
```

3. Update temporal clients to use the new certificates and monitor deployements to make sure all old certificate usage is phased out.
4. Run the `accepted-client-ca remove` command to remove the old certificates.
```
tcld namespace accepted-client-ca remove -n <namespace> --ca-certificate-file <old-ca-pem-filepath>
```

Or use the fingerprint of the old ca certificate with the remove command.
```
tcld namespace accepted-client-ca remove -n <namespace> --ca-certificate-fingerprint <old-ca-fingerprint>
```

### Add new search attributes:
```
tcld namespace search-attributes add -n <namespace> --sa "<attribute-name>=<search-attribute-type>" --sa "<attribute-name>=<search-attribute-type>"
```
Supported search attribute types: `Keyword Text Int Double Datetime Bool`

### Rename existing search attribute:
```
tcld namespace search-attributes rename -n <namespace> --existing-name <existing-attribute-name> --new-name <new-attribute-name>
```
> :warning: Any workflows that are using the old search attribute name will fail after the update.

# Asynchronous Operations
Any update operations making changes to the namespaces hosted on Temporal Cloud are asynchronous. Such operations are tracked using a `request-id` that can be passed in when invoking the update operation or will be auto-generated by the server if one is not specified. Once an asynchronous request is initiated, a `request-id` is returned. Use the `request get` command to query the status of an asynchronous request.
```
tcld request get -r <request-id> -n <namespace>
```

# License

MIT License, please see [LICENSE](https://github.com/temporalio/tcld/blob/master/LICENSE) for details.
